= crunchr

  Given an ORM-model that makes snapshots with counts off your data
  When I include Crunchr
  Then I can do all kinds of nifty calculations

== Synopsis

  # Given an ORM-mode that makes snapshots
  class Statistic < ActiveRecord::Base
    serialize :data

    def self.snapshot
      Statistic.create(
        data: {
          keys: Key.count,
          doors: Door.count,
          rooms: {
            count: Room.count,
            occupied: Room.occupied.count
          }
        }
      )
    end

    # When I include Crunchr
    include Crunchr
  end

  # Then I can doo all kinds of nifty things
  s = Statistic.last

  # like, fetch data
  s.fetch('keys')                # 10
  s.fetch('doors')               # 8
  s.fetch('rooms/count')         # 7

  # do calculations
  s.fetch('keys x doors')        # 80
  s.fetch('keys - doors')        # 2 spare keys...
  s.fetch('doors / rooms/count') # 1.1428 doors per room

  # make deltas
  delta = s.delta(Statistic.first)
  delta.fetch('keys')           # 10 (now) - 5 (then) = 5
  delta.fetch('keys - doors')   # 5 (see above) - 8   = -3
  delta.fetch('rooms/occupied') # 0 (did not change)

  # make tables
  rows = Statistic.where( "created_at > ?", 1.week.ago )
  Statistic.as_table( rows, keys: ['keys',  'doors', 'keys / doors'] )
  # => [
  #   [ 9, 8, 1.125 ]
  #   [ 9, 8, 1.125 ]
  #   [ 7, 8, 0.875 ]
  #   [ 10, 8, 1.25 ]
  # ]

== TODO

* Use created_at as a way to group data for ActiveModel (alike) includers

== Contributing to crunchr

* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been
  implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet.
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested
  it and/or contributed it.
* Fork the project.
* Start a feature/bugfix branch.
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution.
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want
  to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but
  please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2013 Hartog C. de Mik. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

